[THEME MUSIC]
>>JIMMY CHURCH: Hey, everyone.
I'm Jimmy Church.
You've probably seen me on Into
the Vortex right here on Gaia.
And today, I'm
honored to be sitting
in for George Noory on this
episode of Beyond Belief.
Today's guest is
Timothy Alberino.
He's an author, explorer,
investigator of UFOs
and lost civilizations.
He's here to talk
about his expedition
into the Peruvian Amazon,
where he investigated
the chilling Face Peeler
encounters that shook
local villagers to their core.
Timothy, welcome to the show.
>>TIMOTHY ALBERINO:
Pleasure to be with you.
>>CHURCH: I just
got back from Peru.
I've been there three
times in the last year.
You lived there for a long time.
When you look at the culture,
because you see it everywhere,
you turn your head, and
you see something ancient,
you see something strange,
you see something amazing.
But I feel there's a lost
civilization, possible ET
connection to so much of Peru.
Do you feel the same way
with the culture there?
>>ALBERINO: Peru is
the last best place
to discover profound mysteries.
There's so much in that
country, in that land
that is just waiting
to be uncovered in both
the Andes and the Amazon.
It is a mystical land,
as you well know.
And there's something
about it that once
you get deeply ingrained
into the culture--
This is something that a lot of
people who are just tourists,
they just go to Machu Picchu.
They don't really
ingrain themselves
in the culture at all.
But once you get
hooked, you stay
hooked for the
rest of your life.
Because it's just the mystique
of the Andes and the Amazon.
There's something
very unique, something
very special about Peru.
>>CHURCH: When you
talk to the locals
and you get out there,
like you're saying, away
from some of the
larger destinations,
you can discuss ET and UFOs
very openly, can't you?
>>ALBERINO: Definitely.
Peruvians, again,
both in the Andes
and in the Amazon,
many Peruvians
have encountered the
phenomenon up close.
In the Andes
mountains, if you talk
to the villagers who
live in the Andes,
they've seen the craft
descend, land, and occupants
get out and interact with them
and then go back in the craft
and take off.
And then in the
Amazon, the Amazon,
people don't
realize that there's
heightened UFO activity,
for whatever reason,
in the Peruvian and
Brazilian Amazon.
>>CHURCH: I have a
shaman as a tour guide
that takes me around down there.
And last year, he comes
up to me, Timothy,
and he says, OK, me
and my shaman friends,
we have this location
on this mountain.
I'm going to take you there,
where we have encounters,
and the ships come down,
and we have conversations.
He said it in this
matter of fact,
straight faced way, that this
is just almost a way of life.
>>ALBERINO: Yes.
I've heard many similar stories.
There's legends
in the Andes that
tell of an advanced
civilization inhabiting
the interior of the mountains.
They call them the Viracochas.
And these guys allegedly fly
around, usually in saucers.
And these are the
ones that I referenced
earlier that sometimes land
and interact with the people.
This is the group
that ufologists
might refer to as the Nordics.
And it's interesting
because those encounters
seem to be more benevolent,
friendly encounters,
whereas the ones that happen
in the jungle, not so much.
There's been a lot of--
let's put it in these terms.
There's been a lot of hostility
in the Amazon, in both Peru
and in Brazil.
Of course, the famous
Colares Incident in Brazil.
And there's been incidents
like that that have happened
in the Peruvian Amazon as well.
We're going to talk
about one of them today.
So I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it
is about this place.
But there's something, as I said
earlier, something very unique,
especially in regard
to the UFO phenomenon.
>>CHURCH: Now, here's the
million dollar question.
We're going to be talking
about the Face Peelers.
But is there, for you,
one site that stands out,
that shows us that
there must have
been a high technology,
lost civilization,
maybe with ET contact
that came before?
>>ALBERINO: That's
a great question.
I would say there's
a series of sites.
And these are the sites,
these are the famous sites
that everyone goes and sees.
Saqsaywaman, which is in Cusco,
the foundations of Cusco.
Ollantaytambo,
which has, I think,
the most exquisite cyclopean
architecture on planet Earth.
And then the foundations
of Machu Picchu,
which are megalithic.
And when we talk about the city
of Cusco, the city of Cusco
is a megalithic city.
The foundations of that
city are megalithic.
And we know that the foundations
are actually green diorite,
the foundations.
Very, very hard stone.
And what you see in
Cusco today, even when
you walk through
the streets and you
see these exquisite
megalithic walls, right there
off of the plaza, right there
off of the main plaza in Cusco,
those walls are sitting on
green diorite foundations.
There's a megalith
building civilization
that was even older than the
one that built Saqsaywaman.
>>CHURCH: So layer upon
layer of construction,
megalithic construction.
>>ALBERINO: And so I would
say that that area of Peru
is, to me, evidence of
a lost civilization.
And I have a friend
named Andres Adasme,
who's an archeo-astronomer.
Brilliant guy.
He's a colleague
of mine in Peru.
And he has-- based on the
alignments of the temples.
Because the temples
in the city of Cusco,
all of the major temples and
palaces, the Inca temples
and palaces, are arranged
in an X configuration
in the city of Cusco.
And this configuration,
it's very complex.
We won't get into it here.
But this configuration
mirrors a configuration that
happens with the Milky Way.
When you look at it at two
different times of the year,
it creates an X over
the city of Cusco.
The temples are aligned
to this configuration.
It also has to do with
the winter solstice.
And when you do this
celestial alignment,
you can lock in the time.
It's a time marker of
when the city of Cusco
was built or about when.
And it's 10,000 BC.
>>CHURCH: 10,000 BC.
>>ALBERINO: And not only that.
At Ollantaytambo, you can do
the same thing up at the--
I'm sure you've been
to Ollantaytambo up
at the Temple of the Sun on
the summit of Ollantaytambo.
Well, there's a
timepiece there as well.
And it's hard to see,
but when you actually
get an outline of
it from up above--
>>CHURCH: You see the
outline from the top.
>>ALBERINO: You can see it.
It's extraordinary.
It's an alignment
with the temple.
And it marks the sun on
certain times of the year.
And when you do
the calculations,
it goes back to circa 10,000 BC.
So give or take 1,000 years
but some time around 10,000 BC.
So I think there's pretty solid
evidence that the city of Cusco,
whoever built those megaliths,
they did it circa 10,000 BC.
>>CHURCH: Isn't it strange--
Well, then again, it's not.
10,000 BC is the
number, isn't it?
With so many different
cultures on every continent
on this planet.
>>ALBERINO: It is.
It is.
And it's also the marker for
the, 10,500 BC or thereabouts,
for the Younger
Dryas impact episode.
This cataclysm that
destroyed the megafauna,
annihilated the megafauna,
and brought the old world
to utter ruin.
>>CHURCH: It continues
through not only in Bolivia
with Puma Punku and
the alignments there.
But just go around the world.
You have the Epic of Gilgamesh.
You have the creation
story in Edfu
with Egypt and Gobekli Tepe.
Everything goes back--
the aging of the Sphinx.
Everything goes back to
10,500 BC, doesn't it?
>>ALBERINO: That's right.
And you know, you talk
about Tiwanaku in Bolivia,
and you have--
So in Peru and Bolivia, you
have two distinct megalith,
cyclopean techniques.
You have the polygonal,
the pillowed polygonal
that's everywhere in Cusco.
And then you have the
interlocking rectangular blocks
of Tiwanaku.
And in Ollantaytambo, you have
both of those styles combined.
>>CHURCH: Yet the cultures
weren't connected allegedly.
>>ALBERINO: That tells you
that those cultures were
in fact connected
in the distant past
and that they were employing
both of those techniques
at the same time
at Ollantaytambo.
A remarkable megalith building
civilization that disappeared
from the face of the planet.
And by the way, we know that the
Inca didn't build Saqsaywaman.
No matter what the archeologists
and tour guides tell you
in Peru, the Inca did
not build Saqsaywaman
because my colleague,
Anselm Pi Rambla,
he conducted an
excavation at Saqsaywaman.
He went down to the
base level of the wall
of the megalithic complex.
And he only found exclusively
pre-Inca artifacts.
There were no Inca artifacts
at the base level of that wall.
Only pre-Inca artifacts.
Which means the
Inca found the wall.
They didn't build it.
>>CHURCH: I have an archeologist
friend, and I asked him.
If you could dig anywhere in the
world, you've got the budget,
what would you do?
And he goes, the parade
grounds at Saqsaywaman
That's where I would go.
>>ALBERINO: I would
have a different answer.
I would say directly in the
front of the Coricancha.
>>CHURCH: Oh, that too.
>>ALBERINO: Because
there's a whole--
we don't have to get into it.
But there's a whole saga
unfolding right now.
They're trying to open
the fabled Chinkana.
This underground
tunnel that was--
>>CHURCH: And it's marked.
>>ALBERINO: It goes for a mile
from beneath the Coricancha
to the galleries
beneath Saqsaywaman.
We know that there are
galleries, caverns,
some artificial, some
naturally occurring,
beneath that megalithic
complex of Saqsaywaman
>>CHURCH: Now, when it comes to
contact and ET and sightings,
is it because of the
geographic location of Peru?
What came first?
It's like the
chicken or the egg.
Did ET find it historically
and has always been there,
or is there something about
Peru that is drawing them in?
>>ALBERINO: That's
a good question.
I don't know the answer.
But I know that it has to
do with the Andes mountains
and the Amazon jungle.
Again, if you talk to the
ancient Andean communities,
they'll tell you that there's an
advanced civilization inhabiting
the interior of the
Andes mountains.
So like a subterranean, crypto
terrestrial civilization.
And then I suspect that there
might be bases in the Amazon,
or rather under the Amazon as
well, and different factions
that are operating there.
>>CHURCH: Tell us
about the Face Peelers.
What's the story behind
it in the legend?
>>ALBERINO: So the
Face Peeler legend,
the Pelacara legend in Peru,
it goes back to about the mid
'80s but not further than that.
It started sometime
early to mid '80s.
And the Face Peelers are
these mysterious people,
these individuals
who are in possession
of advanced technology,
who from time to time,
will abduct villagers, abduct
members of these Indigenous
communities and always at night.
And sometimes, these
individuals who are abducted
are later found in the river or
in the jungle with their face
entirely removed or partially
removed, or in some cases,
their organs have
also been harvested.
And it's not depredation from
animals, where the flesh is just
haphazardly torn from the face.
No.
It's surgically removed.
It's very much like the cattle
mutilation situation, where
the parts of the face and
other parts of the body
have been surgically removed.
>>CHURCH: Now,
that's your research,
and you've been
looking into this.
But how do the
villagers look at this?
>>ALBERINO: The villagers,
when you ask them
who the Face Peelers are--
because I heard about this when
I lived in the Peruvian
Amazon for 10 years.
And that's where
I learned Spanish.
I learned the particular
dialect of Spanish
called Charapa in
the Peruvian Amazon.
And when you interact with
the Indigenous communities
and you ask them about the
Face Peelers phenomenon,
they're going to tell
you one of two things.
Either these are gringos who
are here to harvest organs
or for sex trafficking
or something like that.
Or you'll hear them tell
you that these are aliens.
These are extraterrestrials.
And the reason why
they're not all in unison
saying these are
gringos is because
of the technological
aspect of the phenomenon.
Whoever these Face
Peelers are, they're
deploying advanced technology,
clearly advanced technology.
We're talking about aerospace,
advanced aerospace vehicles.
So what we would
describe as UFOs.
Craft that move in
very distinctive ways
that are non-conventional.
They don't produce any noise.
They can hover in place.
There's no visible propulsion
system, typical UFO type stuff.
And this is a fundamental part
of this Face Peeler phenomenon.
And then you have
these individuals
who are the abductors
we can call them
or the assailants, who
also themselves are arrayed
in technological armaments.
They have body armor, very
interesting body armor.
They seem to have
stealth capabilities.
They can fly or float
through the jungle.
And so it's precisely
these attributes
that lead some of
the Indigenous people
to believe that these
are extraterrestrials,
that they're not humans.
>>CHURCH: Now, when this
story broke a few years ago,
I immediately
reached out to you.
We've done shows in the past.
And I knew that
you lived in Peru.
And I watched the
videos, and we're
going to watch one
here in a second.
This story broke, and I
called you immediately.
And you had some
interesting insight on it.
But when the story broke,
you were investigating it,
of course.
But how did you take it?
Was this new news to you,
or were you expecting this?
>>ALBERINO: As I said, I
had heard of the Face Peeler
phenomenon when I lived in Peru.
But this-- we live in a
different era now, obviously.
This phenomenon isn't ongoing.
It comes in waves, and
you can have a decade
in between the last incident.
And so we're in a
world now where even
the people who live in deep in
the Amazon have smartphones.
So this is the first time people
actually captured footage.
Now they didn't capture
footage of the assailants,
but they captured
footage of the incidents
where they're pursuing
the assailants.
And you can hear the
gunshots going off
in some of these videos.
And in some of the
videos, you can actually
see UFOs and the victims.
And there was a period
of time, back in 2023,
in the month of July
primarily, but July
and then the
beginning of August,
the first week of August,
where something very bizarre
was happening in
the Peruvian Amazon,
specifically in the region of
Alto Nanay up near Iquitos,
north of Iquitos.
But also in other
parts of the Amazon,
like in Pucallpa, in
which people were actually
being attacked by UFOs,
there was one incident where
I believe it was a young man.
It was a couple of young men
who were walking in a village.
And a UFO projected
a light at them
and began to lift
them off the ground.
And that incident caused a lot
of trepidation in the jungle.
But then there were
other incidents
in which there was a
group of college students
who were in the jungle
for some project,
and they had a collective
sighting of some luminous being
walking in the jungle, and
they took a picture of it.
And all of that was
surfacing at the same time.
And there was a
particular incident
that happened in the village of
San Antonio de Pintuyacu, which
is in the region of Alto Nanay
near the city of Iquitos,
in which the villagers were
being assaulted for weeks,
for a few weeks continually.
And it wasn't
every single night,
but the assaults were happening
within this period of time
frequently, in which
these assailants,
who were dressed in
black armored body suits,
were making incursions into
the village, and in one case,
attempted to abduct a
15-year-old girl named Talia
and apparently to attempted
to cut her face off.
>>CHURCH: We'll get to that.
We have the video of the
village and the shootout.
And as we look at this video, I
want you to walk us through it.
But the village is in fear.
They're panicked, so much so
that the mayor and everybody
else did what they felt was
the only option, which was
to shoot at these assailants.
Let's take a look
at the video here.
>>ALBERINO: Compelling
videos began
to surface on social
media, featuring
an alleged alien attack in a
remote jungle village called
San Antonio de Pintuyacu, which
is inhabited by the Indigenous
Ikitu people and located
deep in the Alto Nanay
region of the Peruvian
Amazon, northwest of Iquitos.
The video depicted
an alarming scene
in which the men of the village
were in a state of panic,
discharging their firearms into
the jungle in the dark of night.
According to the apu,
whose name is Jairo Ritguy,
the assailants were
arrayed in peculiar body
armor with elongated helmets.
They seem to be
impervious to gunfire
as they were shot at point
blank range to no effect
and could seemingly
disappear into the night.
>>CHURCH: They were in fear.
>>ALBERINO: Yeah.
They were being terrorized.
>>CHURCH: Now, there were
some images that went around
of what appeared to be a being
in the tree above the house,
and I thought it
was very compelling.
>>ALBERINO: That was in that
was in the city of Nauta.
So the video that
you guys just showed,
that was San Antonio
de Pintuyacu.
And after that
incident happened,
people were asking me to
go to Peru, to go to Peru
and investigate, because
nobody was investigating.
And the villagers
were begging, they
were begging the
government to protect them.
Begging specifically the
Navy to protect them.
And they were producing videos
where they were all holding up
signs saying, we're under
assault, please help us,
or something to that effect.
And the provincial
government was not
responding because they weren't
taking the situation seriously.
And eventually,
they dispatched--
because the villagers
were demanding
that they do something, they
dispatched two police officers
with a Navy escort
to go to the village.
And these two police officers
investigated a particular
incident that happened with
that 15-year-old girl that I
mentioned earlier.
And these guys
concluded, absurdly,
that what was happening was that
river miners were terrorizing
the villagers to try and
drive them off their land,
so that they could conduct their
mining operations on the river,
and that they were doing this
with state of the art jetpack
technology.
>>CHURCH: Jetpacks.
>>ALBERINO: River
miners with jetpacks.
>>CHURCH: Now, these
aren't river miners
with the mining company
and high tech equipment.
>>ALBERINO: No.
>>CHURCH: These are mud-covered,
Indigenous people in the river,
illegally mining.
>>ALBERINO: So the
press ran with this.
They ran with this story.
Oh, mystery solved.
Mystery solved.
It's just those pesky
river miners with jetpacks.
Absolutely absurd.
If you know anything
about the Amazon jungle
and if you've ever encountered
the river miners, as I have,
in the Amazon jungle, their
operation is very rudimentary.
They float around on these,
what's called balsas.
These barges, rusted out barges.
And they dump mercury.
It's very, very destructive
to the environment.
They dump mercury
into the river,
and then they trudge the river,
and they try and separate
the gold.
And yeah, it's illegal.
So they'll have
shotguns with them.
But they certainly do not have
state of the art jetpacks.
>>CHURCH: Only a few people
on this planet have jetpacks.
>>ALBERINO: And
the jet packs that
are available in the
commercial market,
you can't hardly stay
aloft for very long.
I mean, you can't stay
>>CHURCH: Or navigate
the jungle canopy.
>>ALBERINO: Or
navigate, exactly.
At night.
>>CHURCH: At night.
>>ALBERINO: At night.
And then be
impervious to gunfire
and be able to float
off the ground a meter.
By the way, when
we investigated,
we found out that they were not
flying around with jetpacks.
That was not true.
They were flying around
on circular platforms,
and they were surfing
on the platforms.
They were not flying
around jetpacks.
They did have
hardened backpacks on,
which we hypothesize
that these are perhaps
like fuel cells or some kind
of a reactor or battery pack.
But they did have
the capability, aside
from the circular
platforms, to float.
So they had some
kind of mechanism
built into their footwear
that allowed them to float.
And we were told by multiple
people in the village
that they could jump
over houses, over trees,
like leap over houses.
So I think that these
guys were wearing
some sort of an exo suit.
Definitely body armor.
These helmets that
were like oblong.
And they had these
almond-shaped eye lenses
that were described
variously as being
tinted, yellow tinted or green
tinted, so like night vision.
And they were very tall.
The assailants were described as
being very tall, taller than me.
Everybody said they were--
I'm 6-1, so I look like a
giant standing next to these
Indigenous people.
But they all said that these
guys were taller than me,
about a foot taller than me.
So somewhere in the
neighborhood of 7 to 7.5 feet.
Even some of them
would say up to 8 feet,
but that could be
an exaggeration.
So these are very
strange assailants.
And they would make the
incursion into the village.
The way it would
start, the villagers
would see these little flying
mini flying saucers silently
hovering above their village.
And what they were viewing
were the platforms.
And these guys would
be, they'd come two
by two on the platforms.
They would go descend
into the jungle.
And then they would
surreptitiously
enter the village.
They would sneak
into the village.
And we're not talking
about one or two
or three people who saw them.
We're talking about
most of the village.
There's about 200 inhabitants
in San Antonio de Pintuyacu.
Most of the village saw
these guys in some capacity.
They either saw them
flying in the sky.
They saw them sneaking
into the village.
They saw them abducting--
the attempted
abduction of Talia.
And many of the villagers
actually shot at them
point blank range.
And they heard the
16 gauge shotguns.
They heard the BBs dinking off
of some kind of body armor.
And so it's absolutely
mind-boggling to me
that the Peruvian press
and the American press
ran with a jetpack miner story.
Absolute absurdity.
Preposterous.
>>CHURCH: All they
wanted was help.
They were asking for help--
>>ALBERINO: And
they didn't get any.
And so then they left.
And the whole world thought
it was jetpack miners.
Nauta.
Nauta has a population,
I believe it's 36,000.
You're not dealing with
a small village anymore.
Nauta has a military base.
Nauta has a large
police presence.
They have helicopters.
They have boats.
They have Navy boats.
They have armaments in Nauta.
And the same phenomenon
was happening in Nauta.
So now, the jetpack narrative
is absolutely illogical.
I mean, this isn't--
San Antonio de Pintuyacu
and the other villages
that were being assaulted
are soft targets.
Nauta is a hard target.
This is a different environment.
And people who talked about
this, were talking about it
at the time, were not
talking about Nauta.
They were not
So I went to Nauta and
investigated it as well.
And that's where that video
comes from that you mentioned.
>>CHURCH: Who did you take
with you on the expedition?
>>ALBERINO: I took a friend
of mine named Doug Thornton.
And Doug, he was
an infantry Marine,
and he also worked at the DHS.
And so I didn't know
what I was getting into
and nobody had gone out
there to investigate.
And I did think
in the beginning,
before I went out
to the village,
that we could be
dealing with the cartel
because there's a lot of drug
trafficking that goes up North.
By the way, San Antonio
de Pintuyacu an island
in the midst of a vast,
uninhabited wilderness.
When you go North of San Antonio
de Pintuyacu, there's no people.
There's no villages.
>>CHURCH: This is a jungle.
>>ALBERINO: It's just Amazon.
Untracked Amazon jungle.
And in fact, the
provincial government
established a communications
outpost there.
This is a very ancient
community, by the way.
These are called
the Ikitu people.
And they're wonderful people.
Very old Indigenous community,
very important Indigenous
community.
And the government established
a communications outpost.
They built this
concrete building
that the villagers
call the Tambo.
And it's got a tall radio tower
on it, and it has internet.
They have internet there.
So these villagers, they're
not like walking around
in loin cloths.
Some of the guys will
be sitting in the Tambo
because it's free internet,
on their smartphones watching
Marvel movies.
So these people, they
know what helicopters are.
They know what airplanes are.
They watch all the
same movies as we do.
They're very well educated
in San Antonio de Pintuyacu.
They're still very
Indigenous in regard
to their connection with their
roots and their traditions.
But they're modern people.
And this is why they were
able to capture the cell phone
footage out there
because they have--
and upload it from the village.
So they could
capture the footage
and then upload it because of
the communications outpost.
>>CHURCH: Now you're
there to investigate,
but you're also a resource
for them too as well.
What did they ask you?
Assistance, advice?
>>ALBERINO: So people were
asking me, not from the village.
People who follow
me on social media
are aware of the kind
of expeditions I do,
were begging me to go down
there because nobody was going.
So I tagged my
friend Doug because I
didn't want to go alone because
I knew it could be dangerous.
We went in with
just GoPro cameras
because we did not want
to go in high profile.
We wanted to go in low profile.
I should say before I went, I
made contact with the village.
Thanks to my colleague,
Ronny Burnett,
who's a Brazilian ufologist.
He got me in contact
with the village.
I spoke with Christian,
who captured the video.
Christian, he was this local
schoolteacher there, young man.
And Christian and I
began to interface.
And I recorded a
video on WhatsApp,
and I recorded some audio
expressing my intentions,
that I wanted to come and
investigate the Face Peeler--
the phenomenon that had
happened, the incident.
And they played it in their
elders council in the village.
And then in response to that, I
received an official invitation
from the apu, the chief, and his
elders, to come to the village.
So I didn't just showed up on
the scene with cameras and stuff
like that.
I actually had a
formal invitation.
In fact, the apu
met me in Iquitos,
when I flew into Iquitos.
I chartered a riverboat
called La Esperanza.
And the apu accompanied
me from Iquitos
on the riverboat to the village.
So we were escorted
into the village.
And we were informed
that, first of all,
the villagers, the men in
the village, the villagers
were traumatized.
Many of them had PTSD
from the incidents.
And they were not going
out into the jungle,
to what's called their
chakras, their farms,
to harvest their
products, their produce.
So they were running
low on supplies.
They're running low
on medical supplies.
So we decided to help
them and to bring them
some food and medical supplies.
And I want to thank the
guys from Conduit Church.
They helped me
fund the operation.
And so we were able to resupply
them with food, medicine,
and technology.
>>CHURCH: Did they open
up because you were there
helping them, they
were asking for help?
And then were
there descriptions?
Were they open about
what they were seeing,
and was there
similarities in this?
>>ALBERINO: There were no
conditions on the investigation.
I was welcomed to
come investigate.
But when you go into communities
in the Amazon to do anything,
if you're going to go into
an Indigenous community,
as a gringo, as a foreigner,
you always bring something.
You have to bring gifts.
That's the way they are.
They're very hospitable people.
That's why this was
appropriate for me to do it
because I understand
the culture.
You go and you bring something.
Even if it's just a
little sack of rice,
you always bring something
to the community.
>>CHURCH: Right.
We're not going to talk
about the Face Peelers
unless you bring us.
What were their descriptions
of the Face Peelers like?
>>ALBERINO: They described
them as being exceedingly tall,
wearing armored
bodysuits, head to foot.
An oblong helmet,
elongated helmet.
With the almond-shaped
eye lenses.
>>CHURCH: In the
image of in the tree,
it felt, and I don't
want to go Hollywood,
but it felt predator-ish.
>>ALBERINO: Yes.
We went to that site in Nauta.
And in my video on YouTube,
we freeze the frame,
and it looks like--
now, I don't know
if it's just a play on
the lights or whatever.
But it looks like a
really big gray alien.
And you can see
the eye shine up.
>>CHURCH: He's looking
right at the cam.
>>ALBERINO: And he looks over.
Now again, is this just.
because of the way
that the flashlight
is moving on the foliage?
I don't know.
But when we went to that site,
I wanted to go to that site
and get an understanding of what
it looked like in the daytime,
in daylight--
>>CHURCH: With the roof line
and the tree in the background.
>>ALBERINO: Exactly.
Because it appears in the
village that whatever this was
was right above the house.
That's not true.
We realized when we got there
that it was behind the house,
in this large tree.
And if that was a
being, then it's huge.
>>CHURCH: Then it was much
larger than when it appeared.
>>ALBERINO: 8 feet
tall, 9 feet tall.
It had to be really big.
The head had to
be about this big.
Interestingly enough, there
were a couple of incidents.
And the lady across the street,
the neighbor across the street.
I played the video back for her.
And she hadn't seen that
particular incident,
but she had seen
another incident there.
And in this other
incident, she saw
a saucer hovering in that area.
>>CHURCH: Was this the acorn?
>>ALBERINO: No.
This was the typical flying
saucer she drew in the sand.
It was a circle, and it had
like lights around the base.
And her other
neighbors all attested
to seeing a flying
saucer hovering
above this tree on a
different occasion.
>>CHURCH: Tim, we have the
image here of your freeze frame.
Tell us about it.
>>ALBERINO: Well,
I mean, this to me
looks like a typical Grey alien.
You can see what
appears to be big,
black, almond-shaped
eyes with the light
shining off of those eyes.
Now, I'm not sure if
this is an entity,
or as I said before, maybe just
the way that the flashlight
is shining off of the leaves.
However, I should say
that in the video,
the residents of this
neighborhood are frantic.
And they're yelling.
And they're all
looking up in the tree.
And this guy has a
flashlight, and he points it
at whatever this is.
And he says, "ah est,
ah est." est, ah est"
There it is.
He seems to identify it.
And so, I mean, we could
be looking at an entity.
We could be.
I'm not saying we are.
We could be looking
at an entity.
And here's where this gets
really interesting for me.
9 foot tall, maybe 10 foot tall,
Grey alien or mantis-type being.
Insectalin as Dr.
Jacobs calls them.
The Vegas incident.
>>CHURCH: Very similar.
>>ALBERINO: The exact
same description.
>>CHURCH: Very similar.
>>ALBERINO: The same thing.
So you have in the Vegas
incident, which was,
was that 2024?
These incidents all-- there
was a cluster of incidents.
And you had the thing that
happened in the mall in Florida.
All these things
kind of happened
within a window of like
six months or something.
They were not that separated.
>>CHURCH: Different
sides of the country,
different parts of the world.
>>ALBERINO: Yeah.
And in the Vegas incident,
you have the body cam
from the officer who sees
this thing come down,
clearly come down
in the neighborhood.
And then this family makes
that frantic 911 phone call.
And what did they say?
They saw these alien beings
that were what, 9, 10 foot tall
in their backyard.
>>CHURCH: You know what
was similar about each one
of those cases?
And this is the
frightening part.
The beings, the
entities, the creatures,
acted like an apex
type predator,
where they were not concerned
about being looked at.
They were not concerned
about being chased.
They were just OK.
And they were observing
the situation.
Nobody ran.
Nobody took off.
It was an apex predator
just looking at something
that it wasn't that concerned.
>>ALBERINO: And that's a great
analogy because they clearly
have cloaking technology.
And in the Vegas
incident, you'll
recall that the news showed up.
The local news organization
showed up fairly quickly,
I think the same night, right?
They show up on scene.
They don't have permission
to film in the backyard,
so they cut their camera.
Remember, they're following
the family into the backyard.
And in the backyard, they have
like some forklifts and stuff.
And they said that the
aliens, when they saw them,
were ducking behind
the forklifts.
And the camera follows them
into the backyard, and it cuts.
But before it cuts,
it captures something.
And I've seen clips of this.
A lot of people focus on
something behind the fence,
and I've seen those too.
And I don't know what
to make of those.
People, different things
about that fence, right?
That's compelling.
But if you look beyond
the fence and you
look behind the forklift,
where they were talking about,
there seems to be precisely the
same size and shape head that's
in the tree in Nauta.
And it's doing the same thing.
It's kind of looking.
It kind of looks like--
>>CHURCH: Just nonchalantly.
>>ALBERINO: Just nonchalantly,
looks over like this.
And it gives me chills
even talking about it
because it looks like
the identical same thing
in the tree at Nauta
and behind the forklift.
>>CHURCH: Not feeling
threatened, not scared,
not concerned.
Apex predator type of
interaction, where they were not
frightened by humans.
>>ALBERINO: That's right.
>>CHURCH: And that's a pretty
chilling thought, isn't it?
>>ALBERINO: It is.
And that's why
with this situation
that was unfolding in
San Antonio de Pintuyacu
and in the Peruvian
Amazon in general, what's
really bizarre about
this is that there was
a joint operation that
coincided with these sightings
in the Amazon.
And it was an operation led by
the United States government.
And it was called
Resolute Sentinel.
>>CHURCH: Interesting
name for that operation.
>>ALBERINO: Resolute sentinel.
>>CHURCH: Right.
>>ALBERINO: And there were
eight different nations.
It was based in Peru.
The operation was based
in Peru, but it involved
the Peruvian Armed Forces.
Brazil, Uruguay, Ecuador.
I think Colombia.
I can't remember.
A bunch of South
American countries.
And the United Kingdom.
And we had the Marines.
We had the Air Force.
We had the Navy.
We had the Coast Guard.
We had Space Force.
>>CHURCH: That's right.
>>ALBERINO: And some other
branches of our military
that were involved
in this operation.
So when you say
predator, I think
it's possible that
we were aware,
some element of
our government was
aware of a very nefarious
group that was operating
in the Peruvian
Amazon and that we
sent in perhaps some special
ops teams or something
to monitor, to surveil, or even
perhaps to confront whatever
was happening out there.
And we used Resolute
Sentinel as a cover.
That's just a conspiracy theory.
>>CHURCH: Well, it would
make sense because,
well, to protect
what was going on,
but to stop something
that could be running
around not of this planet.
We have the situation
where what appear
to be the Face Peelers
attempting to abduct Talia
that you mentioned earlier.
What happened with that?
>>ALBERINO: We went to
the village one evening.
And during the evening, in
these Indigenous communities,
all of the people
are in the square.
And the men are playing soccer.
The women are
playing volleyball.
And they're having a good time.
We were just sort
of walking around,
and everyone's
having a good time.
And we spotted this young girl,
this teenage girl sitting up
against the wall all by
herself, up against the Hut.
She's got a smile on
her face, and she's just
watching everyone else
play soccer and volleyball.
And I was talking to
the Apu, and I told him
I would like to interview Talia.
And he said, well, there
she is right there.
That's her.
It was this young girl
sitting up against the wall
with a smile on her face.
She looks over.
She happens to look
over at me and Doug.
And me and Doug are
imposing figures.
We're big gringos.
And as soon as she sees
us, as soon as she sees us,
she freezes, and she
starts to tremble.
And she looks down.
She's trembling.
And she takes her hair, and she
covers that side of her face,
like blocking her face from us.
And she's just trembling.
Obviously severe PTSD.
Her father went
and talked to her.
She did not want to talk to us.
She was associating us
with her assailants.
Well, fast forward
the next morning, I
went over to her
house, and her father
convinced her to talk to me.
And she told me the
story of what happened.
And she was trembling and
crying for some of it.
And she told me that one day
in the afternoon, right before
sunset.
And these incursions
only happened after dark.
She had a stick in
her backyard, and she
was trying to knock down
some fruit from a tree.
The fruit fell to the ground.
She bent over to pick it up,
and she felt a wind at her back.
And the dry leaves were
being rustled on the floor.
And she looked up,
and she saw that there
was this individual dressed in
black, in black armored body
suit, surfing on a hoverboard,
surfing on a circular platform.
He came up right next to her,
and he dropped behind her.
And he grabbed her from
behind, and he put his hand
over her mouth.
Then another guy came up, and
there was like a gully behind,
forested gully, jungle
behind her house.
And this is in the
middle of the village.
This isn't even on the
outskirts of the village.
And this other guy comes
up in the same way,
surfing on this platform.
Lands in front of her
and grabs her feet.
They press something
on their boots.
That lifts the platforms up.
And then they carry her behind
like this thatched roof chicken
coop.
And they land.
And then I won't go through all
the details for brevity's sake.
They shot something up her
nose with a nasal syringe.
That's the first thing they did.
And when they did
that, she started--
It was like a sedative.
And she was getting
disoriented a little bit.
And then they smeared
this cream on her face.
And she heard them
speak in Spanish.
One she calls the
gringo because she
says he had a gringo
accent like me, she said.
And the other one said just
sounded like a Peruvian.
And she said that the
gringo guy was smearing
this cream on her face, and
the Peruvian Face Peeler
said, be careful, be careful.
Don't put too much on.
You're going to ruin the flesh.
>>CHURCH: OK.
We have a video here of Talia.
Take us through this, Tim.
>> The girl, whose
name is Talia,
was able to scream during the
altercation with her assailants
and was fortunately rescued by
her brother and her neighbors,
who came running to
investigate the commotion.
Talia sustained a
laceration in her neck
and was in a state
of chemically induced
disorientation for some
time after the incident.
>>ALBERINO: After they smeared
this cream on her face,
they took out what appeared
to be like a laser syringe.
The way she described it, it
was like a little laser syringe,
and they started
to cut, and that's
what you see in the video, the
incisions beneath her neck.
And as they began to cut,
she started to struggle,
and she got her hand up
underneath because the guy was
behind her with his
hand over his mouth.
She got her hand up
underneath his helmet
and started to push
up on his helmet.
And he didn't want
her to see his face.
So he scrambled to
pull his helmet down.
They dropped her momentarily,
and she screamed.
And when she screamed,
the villagers
were already in a
state of vigilance.
They came running on the scene
and with their flashlights,
and they saw these assailants
floating on their disks,
floating on their
circular platforms,
and Talia laying on the
ground, bloodied up.
So they actually
saw her assailants,
and then they took Talia to
a medical post in the village
down the river.
>>CHURCH: Is this ongoing.
>>ALBERINO: It was happening for
a few months from early July,
basically the summer of 2023,
basically in the summer.
Most of the activity
was in July.
It is no longer
happening in the Amazon.
I'm in communication
with the village.
They have had no
further incidents.
We armed them with technology
to film, to aid in their patrols
that they were running.
We gave them walkie talkies.
We gave them all kinds of
technological equipment.
And the phenomenon has ceased.
It's not been happening.
>>CHURCH: Such a compelling
and frightening story.
Where can everybody
follow your work?
>>ALBERINO: You can
follow me on social media.
My handle is always
timothyalberino.
I'm on Instagram,
Twitter, YouTube.
You can see this video
in full on YouTube.
By the way, my YouTube
channel, Timothy Alberino.
Timothyalberino.com
is my website.
And you can find
my books on Amazon.
>>CHURCH: Fascinating
story, Timothy,
and I look forward to having
you on the show again.
>>ALBERINO: Definitely.
Thanks for having
me on this time.
>>CHURCH: I'm Jimmy Church,
and we'll catch you next time
right here on Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]